IDMacs: GNU Emacs customized for SAP NetWeaver(R) Identity Management
---------------------------------------------------------------------


What is IDMacs?
---------------
IDMacs is a customized version of GNU Emacs for Windows, designed
for use as an external JavaScript editor in SAP NetWeaver(R) Identity
Management 7.2. The rest of this document assumes that you have
SAP NetWeaver(R) Identity Management 7.2, specifically the Identity Center
Management Console, installed on a machine. This machine will be referred
to as "IC Designtime".


Installation
------------
* If you have an existing Emacs installation on the IC Designtime,
carefully read the section 'Important Note for Existing Emacs
Installations' before proceeding.

* Download a precompiled GNU Emacs, version 24.x, for Windows from http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/emacs/windows/ The currently recommended download for use with IDMacs is emacs-24.1-bin-i386.zip.

* Extract emacs-24.1-bin-i386.zip to the hard drive of the IC Designtime. The recommended directory is C:\, resulting in a subdirectory C:\emacs-24.1 as Emacs installation directory.

* If you have GIT installed, open a Windows command prompt and enter:

$ git clone https://github.com/boskamp/idmacs.git
$ cd idmacs

* If don't have GIT, download IDMacs as a ZIP file from https://github.com/boskamp/idmacs. Use the "ZIP" button in the upper left part of the page. Unzip that to the hard drive of the IC designtime. Open a Windows command prompt, and CD into the directory idmacs-master extracted from the ZIP.

* On the command line, enter:

$ idmacs_install

* Follow the on-screen instructions. When prompted, enter your Emacs installation directory (e.g. C:\emacs-24.1), then press Enter. Press the TAB key one or more times to automatically complete and cycle through directory names you have partially typed in.

* Start the SAP NetWeaver(R) Identity Management Identity Center Management Console. It will be referred to as "MMC" throughout the rest of the document.

* [optional] Create a job folder for IDMacs jobs. Navigate to the "Job folder" underneath the Identity Center configuration. Create a new folder "IDMacs" directly underneath "Job folder".

* Import the job "etc\idmacs\job\idmacs_job_export_sap_idm_symbols.mcc" located underneath your Emacs installation directory. Right mouse-click on the job folder you just created, and select "Import..." from the context menu. Navigate to the subdirectory "etc\idmacs\job" underneath your Emacs installation directory. If you followed the recommendations, this will be "C:\emacs-24.1\etc\idmacs\job". Select the file idmacs_job_export_sap_idm_symbols.mcc, and press OK. Press the "Next" button, then "Import". Depending on which database you're using, the import may result in a warning message stating that the job was exported from a different database platform than what you're using. That's OK, no problem. Press "Finish". You should now have a new job "Export SAP IDM Symbols" underneath the folder you started from.

* Verify that the job constant IDMACS_EMACS_DIR is set to the correct Emacs installation directory. Expand the new node "Export SAP IDM Symbols" in the MMC tree control, and select "Job constants". If the value displayed next to "IDMACS_EMACS_DIR" does not match your Emacs installation directory, double-click the constant name to change the constant's value. Specify the correct directory in the input field "Value:", then press the "OK" button.

* Verify that the job is enabled. In the MMC tree control, select the node "Export SAP IDM Symbols". This will display the job details. On the "Options" tab of the job details, verify that the property "Enabled" is true (checkbox in state "checked"). If it is not, set it to true now and press the "Apply" button.

* Verify that the job is assigned to a dispatcher. Still on the "Options" tab of the job details, verify that the job is assigned to a dispatcher. In the section "Dispatchers", verify that the property "Run by dispatchers:" is true (checkbox in state "checked") for at least one of your dispatchers. If the job is not currently assigned to any dispatcher, assign it to one of your dispatchers by ticking the checkbox next to the dispatcher name, then press the "Apply" button.

* Execute the job. Still on the "Options" tab of the job details, press the "Run now" button in the "Scheduling section". Execution will take less than 5 seconds on typical server hardware. If no job log is displayed, make sure that the dispatcher you assigned the job to is up and running.

* Verify actual job execution from the job logs. In the MMC tree control, select "Job log" underneath "Export SAP IDM Symbols" to display the logs of this job.  You may need to press the "Refresh" button a couple of times. 

* Check for errors in the job log. Still in the job log display, verify that the job finished without any error messages. A successful job execution will produce a couple of warnings in the log, which are related to skipping database vendor-specific passes that are not applicable to your installation.  

* [optional] Set "bin\idmacs.cmd" located underneath your Emacs installation directory as your script editor. From the MMC menu, select "Tools" -> "Options". Press the ellipsis button (...) next to the input field "Script editor:". In the file selection dialog, navigate to the subdirectory "bin" of your Emacs installation directory. Change the "Files of type:" dropdown to "All files (*.*)", then select the file idmacs.cmd and press the "Open" button. Press "OK" in the "Options" dialog.


Reporting Bugs
--------------
If you have problems with IDMacs, please follow the below guidelines to file a bug report. Although I will try my best to support you with the software, please understand that this is a non-profit activity that I cannot always focus on. Consquently, I will not always have the time to respond to your bug reports in a timely manner.

Please use the issue tracker at 

https://github.com/boskamp/idmacs/issues 

to report any problems with IDMacs. Provide a short, yet concise textual description of your problem, and add screenshots whereever it could help illustrating what exactly is happening.

Make sure to include the following key information:

1. Which version of IDMacs are you using? Open a command prompt, CD into the directory where you extracted the IDMacs sources into, and enter the following command:

$ git log -1

Copy and paste the complete output of this command into your bug description.

2. For problems during installation (idmacs_install.cmd):
Repeat the installation with the --debug command line option like so:

$ idmacs_install --debug

This will create a developer trace file dev_idmacs_install in the current working directory. Copy and paste its contents into your bug description.

3. For problems during startup of the editor (idmacs.cmd):

Find the developer trace file dev_idmacs in the "bin" subdirectory of your Emacs installation directory. Copy and paste its contents into the your bug description.

4. For problems during execution of the job "Export SAP IDM Symbols":

Copy and paste the job log into your bug description. In the MMC tree control, select the node "Job log" underneath the job. In the "Log information" pane, double click the line that corresponds to the job run that made trouble (typically the most recent one, displayed at the top). In the HTML job log that is displayed, use the context menu to "Select all", then "Copy". Now paste that into the issue description form at GitHub.


IDMacs Keybindings
------------------
A comprehensive documentation of general Emacs keybindings is provided in the document "etc\refcards\refcard.pdf" underneath your Emacs installation directory.

The following additional keybindings are specific to IDMacs:

Shift - F1        Pretty print
Ctrl  - F2        Syntax check
Shift - F2        Display API documentation
Ctrl  - F3        Save & quit
Ctrl  - F4        Quit
Ctrl  - Space     Auto complete
Ctrl  - /         Toggle line comment

In addition, IDMacs enables the following standard Windows keybindings:

Ctrl  - c         Copy
Ctrl  - x         Cut
Ctrl  - v         Paste
Ctrl  - z         Undo

IDMacs User Options
-------------------
All customizable user options are in customization group idmacs. You can go to all user options of this group directly via M-x customize-group RET idmacs RET. Alternatively, you can start browsing customization groups via the menu (Options -> Customize Emacs -> Top-level customization group) and then navigate to Programming -> Languages -> IDMacs.

User option: idmacs-help-value
------------------------------
Full file name of IdM compiled HTML help file. In a default installation, this is located at C:\usr\sap\IdM\Identity Center\dse.chm. If the variable is not set or the file specified here does not exist, function idmacs-apidoc (Display API documenation) will look up API documentation from the web instead of from a local help file.


Important Note for Existing Emacs Installations
-----------------------------------------------
IDMacs is designed as an overlay for an existing GNU Emacs installation
on Windows. It may OVERWRITE files of this Emacs installation and
thereby result in LOSS of existing customizations and modifications
you may already have applied to Emacs on your own. If you have an
existing Emacs installation on the IC Designtime, I therefore strongly
recommend that you install an additional Emacs instance,
dedicated for use with IDMacs.


Contact Information
-------------------
Author: Lambert Boskamp <lambert@boskamp-consulting.com.nospam>


Copyright and License Information
---------------------------------
Copyright (C) 2013 Lambert Boskamp

SAP NetWeaver(R) Identity Management and SAP NetWeaver(R) ID Management are the trademark(s) or registered trademark(s) of SAP AG in Germany and in several other countries.

This file is part of IDMacs.

IDMacs is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

IDMacs is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with IDMacs.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
